\section{Protection \emph{is} a New Primitive}

% pp 33--34, ch 1, sec 4:
In Tanenbaum's \emph{Modern Operating Systems} he asserts, ``The main property
which distinguishes embedded systems from handhelds is the certainty that no
untrusted software will ever run on it''~\cite{tanenbaum}. In this paper we
argue that this is no longer the case. As a class of device, embedded systems
are evolving beyond the single-application case, and as a consequence, they
require their operating system to provide process isolation, enforced resource
arbitration, and protection.
%
Three converging trends, modern language design, new microcontroller hardware
primitives, and contemporary multi-MCU system design afford new opportunites
to provide protection as a primitive that was previously unavailable to
embedded systems.



\subsection{Language Level Protection}

\name is written in Rust: a type-safe, thread-safe, compiled, low-level systems
language. Using a language with strong safety protections has enabled \name to
formalize the separation between core kernel code and contributed device
drivers, which are traditionally where most bugs are found but are included in
the kernel for performance and practical reasons. While recent server operating
systems utilize hardware I/O virtualization~\cite{arrakis:osdi2014, ix:osdi2014}
to run device drivers outside the kernel, such hardware mechanisms are unlikely
to be available in microcontrollers in the foreseable future.

\subsection{Memory Protection}

Modern ARM Cortex-M processors provide a hardware protection mechanism called
Memory Protection Unit (MPU).  An MPU allows the kernel to set access
permissions on a fixed number of memory regions which are enforced on
application code. Like Memory Management Units (MMUs) found in application
processors, MPUs trap illegal memory accesses (e.g. writing to read-only memory)
to the kernel, however unlike the MMUs, they do not provide virtual addressing,
so do not enable mechanisms like swap memory, shared libraries, etc. MPUs are
typically much more fine-grained than virtual memory. For example, in the ARM
Cortex-M series of microcontrollers, the MPU can address regions as small as 32
bytes, whereas virtual memory typically divides memory into pages of at least
4KB.

\name uses the MPU to protect kernel and driver memory from untrusted
application code as well as different applications from one another.
Applications are given dedicated region of memory for stack, heap and appliction
specific kernel buffers. When execution is yielded to an application, the MPU
restricts access to memory outside of this region. Moreover, application
specific kenel buffers (e.g. interrupt callback queues) are allocated in the
application's memory region, but protected from application tampering. This is
possible due to the fine granularity of the MPU and allows \name to eliminate
dynamic allocation in the kernel but allow more runtime flexibility in
applications.

In contrast to traditional embedded operating systems, \name uses a system call
ABI rather than library calls to provide an interface between applications and
the kernel.

\subsection{Multiple Processors}

Modern embedded platforms often involve multiple microprocessors in practice.
For example, both the CC2540 and the NRF51822 Bluetooth modules are, in fact,
full blown microprocessors, but many products include them in addition to
another microprocessor~\endnote{Well, at least Coin does that}. Tock leverage
multiprocessor environments to enforce another layer of isolation between
applications and the kernel, by running different application components on
different cores depending on their needs to access specific hardware, as well as
power and performance constraints.

